About This Project and Me

I was taking a programming languages course and I was assigned the language Prolog to learn
and present. It was very confusing and frustrating to use, but eventually I got the hang
of the basics. After my presentation I thought I would never use the language again, and I
went to bed. Right before I fell asleep I had an idea: Could I use prolog to create a
family tree of Greek mythology. I have always had an interest in Greek mythology, and I
felt Prolog could be useful. After some quick 2AM research I discovered a few family
trees, but they were all very basic, consisting of gender, parents, kids, and sibling. I
wanted to do more.

So the next morning I started work on this project. After establishing the basic
relationships, I began to add more. My end goal was to put any two names in, and get the
relationship between the two people/gods/nymphs, as well as listing the path that it took
to get there. This was significantly harder than I imagined do to the complexities within
Greek mythology, but in the end I figured it out. Every function here has had at least one
other completely different implementation that I scrapped for either being too slow, not
doing what I wanted, or causing the system to completely stall indefinitely (that happened
a lot). But eventually I got everything working, and I am very proud of the result.

This project has really taught me how Prolog works. I started with only the basics, and I
now feel confident in saying I know the language well. I am definitely not saying this
program is the most optimal it can be, or even that Prolog was the best language to write
this in, but that overall it was a fun and rewarding process. I have not done a personal
project in a long time due to school/work, and I had forgotten how much fun it was.

P.S. A lot of time was just spent figuring out family trees of all the different heroes and gods.
My desk and area around my desk is covered in various family trees.
